                                                                    Git & Github(2nd assignments)


1.)	How to check if git is available on your system?
Ans :This command is used to check the version of Git
syntax: :it version or Git --version

2.)	How to initialize a new Git repository?
Ans :Initialize Git: Once you are in the desired directory, run the following command to initialize a new Git repository
syntax: git init


3.)	How to tell git about your name and email?

Ans :git config --list //this command is used to provide the list of configuration
To set the username and email
git config --global user.name "Nitin '
git config - -global user.email "javabynitin2022@gmail.com 
global



4.)	How to add a file to the staging area?
Ans :git add
To send the code from workspace to stage area we use the following command syntax : git add < file-name)
If we want to push all the files from workspace to stage area,we use the following command. syntax: git add  git add --a



5.)	How to remove a file from the staging area?
Ans :To remove a file from the staging area in Git without deleting it from your working directory,
you can use the git reset command followed by the file name.
Here's how to do it
Syntax: git reset <filename>



	
6.)	How to make a commit?
Ans :git commit
The files which are ready for commit should be in stage area, to perform commit operation we use the following command syntax: git commit -m (some-messages)
egl. git commit -m "first commit" / / This file commit all the files present in stage area eg2. git commit -m "second commit' filename
  This will commit only that file into local repository




7.)	How to send your changes to a remote repository?
Ans :git is used by git software to identify the folder which should participate in pushing to "local" and "remote  repositories.
syntax : git init
It means the files are moved from working area to stage area so these files can be committed to local repository" and to "remote repository".



8.)	What is the difference between clone and pull?
Ans :Difference between pull and clone
i. git pull
It is used to fetch the latest changes made in the remote repository to the working directory. 
syntax: git pull ii. git clone
It is used to clone the repository to the working directory of the developer. 
syntax: git clone <url>



