                                        Interface Assigment

1. What is an interface in Java?
Ans: An interface in Java is a mechanism that is used to achieve complete abstraction. It is basically a kind of
class that contains only constants and abstract methods.

2. Which modifiers are allowed for methods in an Interface?Explain with an example
Ans: Only abstract and public modifiers are allowed for methods in interfaces.

3. What is the use of interface in Java?
Ans: There are many reasons to use interfaces in java. They are as follows:
a. An interface is used to achieve full abstraction.
b. Using interfaces is the best way to expose our project’s API to some other project.
c. Programmers use interfaces to customise features of software differently for different objects.
d. By using interface, we can achieve the functionality of multiple inheritance.

4. What is the difference between abstract class and interface in Java?In Java, both abstract classes and interfaces are used to achieve abstraction, but they have some key differences:

1. Abstract Class
Definition: An abstract class is a class that cannot be instantiated and may contain abstract methods (methods without a body) as well as concrete methods (methods with a body).
Usage: Used when you want to provide a common base with some implemented behavior.
Methods:
Can have both abstract (without implementation) and concrete (with implementation) methods.
Variables:
Can have instance variables with any access modifier (private, protected, public).
Can have static and non-static variables.
Constructors: Can have constructors to initialize fields.
Access Modifiers: Can have public, private, or protected methods and variables.
Multiple Inheritance: A class can extend only one abstract class (single inheritance).
Example:

abstract class Animal {
    abstract void makeSound(); // Abstract method

    void sleep() { // Concrete method
        System.out.println("Sleeping...");
    }
}

class Dog extends Animal {
    void makeSound() {
        System.out.println("Bark!");
    }
}
2. Interface
Definition: An interface is a blueprint of a class that contains only abstract methods (before Java 8) and can contain default and static methods (since Java 8).
Usage: Used when you want to define a contract that multiple unrelated classes can implement.
Methods:
Can only have abstract methods (before Java 8).
From Java 8, can have default methods (with implementation) and static methods.
All methods in an interface are public and abstract by default.
Variables:
All variables are public, static, and final (constants).
Constructors: Cannot have constructors because interfaces cannot have state.
Access Modifiers: All methods are implicitly public and abstract.
Multiple Inheritance: A class can implement multiple interfaces (supports multiple inheritance).
Example:
java
Copy
Edit
interface Animal {
    void makeSound(); // Abstract method (implicitly public and abstract)
}

class Dog implements Animal {
    public void makeSound() {
        System.out.println("Bark!");
    }
}
Key Differences
Feature	Abstract Class	Interface
Methods	Can have both abstract and concrete methods	Only abstract methods (before Java 8); can have default/static methods (Java 8+)
Variables	Can have instance variables	Only public, static, and final variables (constants)
Constructors	Can have constructors	Cannot have constructors
Inheritance	Supports single inheritance (extends)	Supports multiple inheritance (implements)
Access Modifiers	Can have any access modifier	All methods are public by default
Use Case	When you want to provide some common behavior along with abstraction	When you only want to define a contract for other classes to implement

ANS: